Good afternoon.
Welcome to the Evolution of
View Controllers on iOS.
I'm Matt Gamble,
member of the UI kit team here at Apple.
I'll be joined on stage
later by my colleague,
Bruce Nilo.
Now,
today we're going to be talking a little
bit about why we use view controllers,
how we can use them most
effectively in our applications.
And then later,
Bruce is going to talk about some of
the changes that we've had in iOS 6
and how to get your apps ready for a
lot of the changes as we move forward.
So, view controllers.
Why do we want to use UI View Controller?
Well, view controllers make
common tasks simpler.
Now, first of all, as you could probably
guess from the name,
view controllers manage a view.
Well, actually, more specifically,
they manage a view hierarchy
that's rooted at a view.
And this could be a view hierarchy
that you compose in code yourself,
or it could be one that you
design in Interface Builder.
In either case,
UIViewController takes care
of loading the view when
it's necessary automatically,
even from a nib.
In addition,
there's also some appearance calls
that UI View Controller takes care of
to tell you when your view is moving
in and out of the view hierarchy.
And as Bruce will show you later,
there's actually some interesting
things that you can do with
these calls if you're designing
your own custom container.
Auto rotation.
This is another benefit
of UI View Controller.
And this can be as simple as setting your
auto resizing masks correctly or taking
advantage of the new Auto Layout system.
Or you can actually make use of some
callbacks in the View Controller API,
such as will rotate to
interface orientation,
which is telling you when
this rotation is beginning.
And then will animate rotation
to interface orientation.
And this is where if you wanted
to do some interesting animations
as part of this rotation,
in your own View Controller,
you could take care of this here.
And then finally did rotate to
interface orientation when the
rotation event has completed.
UI View Controller also
centralizes responsibility.
I'd like to illustrate
this with an example.
So let's imagine we have a view
hierarchy with a common goal,
maybe taking some input from the user or
presenting some content from somewhere.
And for everything to work together,
there's a bunch of messages being
passed as different things are updating
their state and changing other state.
And then maybe we throw in a model
object we got from somewhere,
and then, of course,
that guy has to talk to everybody else.
Everybody's talking with each other,
and this quickly becomes infeasible
and a nightmare to maintain.
Well,
UI View Controller is a great place to
centralize this responsibility so that
it manages the content from the model
and updating the view as is appropriate.
Now, if this diagram looks pretty
familiar -- this is actually because
it should -- this is a pattern,
the MVC, Model View Controller pattern,
that you've probably heard of.
And so the View Controller acts
as the controller in this pattern,
mediating between the model and the view.
So managing a view hierarchy,
centralizing responsibility,
it's also a very reusable class.
Now let's imagine we have our
interface that we've designed,
perhaps an interface builder like here.
We could just present this view
as in our application just as is.
That's great.
Or we could use this as the
view controller class that we
vend to a page view controller
with its data source methods.
We're reusing this,
changing the content as makes
sense for our application.
Maybe we have a universal application.
We can reuse this same ViewController
class and show its content in
a popover controller instead.
Or maybe we need to design our
own custom application flow,
and we've elected to use the new
containment API from Introducing 5.0,
and we can use it showing it on screen
with some other view controllers,
whatever makes the most sense
for our application flow.
Also, you can take advantage of a lot
of the container controllers
that the system provides that
take care of common workflows.
Just like the navigation controller
or the tab bar controller,
and there's many others.
And your clients are used to these.
They've used them in
lots of applications,
and they'll be able to get
up to speed very quickly.
There's also some view controllers
that we vend that you could then
present in your application,
such as this Tweet Compose
View Controller and many others.
And for this reason,
they make a nice size
block to pass around,
and that's something you
want to be considering.
So hopefully I've convinced
you that it's a good idea to
make use of view controllers.
They can really help you.
And so now let's talk a little bit
about how to use view controllers in
your applications most effectively.
So to begin with, the typical application
will have one window,
and this one window will have
one root view controller.
And you would establish this relationship
probably in one of the application
did or will finish launching methods
by passing it to the window with
the set root view controller method.
So this establishes this
relationship with the window.
And then, when we want to be building our
view controller hierarchy to
describe our application flow,
there's generally three main
paths that we'll be using.
Now, the first of these paths is with
the system-provided containers,
such as the Navigation
Controller and Tab Bar Controller,
and there's many others like
the Split View Controller and
the Page View Controller.
And like I mentioned,
these are commonly used
in applications on iOS,
so users are already familiar with them.
They know how to use them.
They're ready to go.
They'll be familiar with your
app before they've even used it.
So it's a great idea to use these
and take advantage of them whenever
it makes sense for your application.
Now, the second path is presentation.
Presentation can be a great way to
present content that exists outside
of your standard application flow.
Perhaps it's some modal content,
like maybe a login or
some other idea like this.
And so you can simply present
this content over top of
your other view controllers.
And since you're using the
presentation mechanics,
all of your rotation and all of the
standard view controller mechanisms
that you expect will work correctly.
And finally, creating a custom container.
If you have an application
flow that is not provided by
one of our system containers,
or if perhaps you want to
use transitions between your
content that we don't provide,
you can do it yourself with a
custom container controller,
taking advantage of the containment
API that was introduced in iOS 5.
I'd like to go into a little bit more
detail as to how you would do this.
So let's say we have our parent
view controller with its view
hierarchy rooted at its view,
and we want to add a
child view controller.
Well, we'd begin by calling the
addChildViewController method
on the parent view controller,
passing in the child.
This establishes the view
controller relationship,
parent-child.
Then we go ahead and add the
root view of this child view
controller's view hierarchy wherever
it makes sense in our application,
in our view hierarchy, with add subview.
And then finally we call
didMoveToParentViewController on
the child view controller passing
in the parent view controller,
which in this case is the new parent.
Now you'll notice that we didn't
call willMove at the beginning,
and that's actually because
the addChildViewController
takes care of that for us,
and so we're only
responsible for the didMove.
So let's say in our application
flow it's now come time to
remove this view controller.
And to do so, we start by calling the
willMoveToParentViewController
saying that nil,
it's not going to have
a parent at this point.
And just as we saw before,
we're calling the will and we won't
be calling the did at the end of this.
Next, we'll remove the view from
its superviews hierarchy.
And then finally,
call remove from parent view
controller on the child,
and that severs this relationship.
And we're back to where we started.
Now, there's a lot more -- there
are a lot more interesting
things that you can do here.
And, again,
Bruce is going to go into some
more details to how you can
do this in your applications.
So there's a few rules when it comes to,
to custom containers.
More like guidelines,
but they're good to follow.
First one is, well, the main one,
is parents make the rules
and children follow them.
So parents add children,
not the other way around.
It's not a great idea to find some view
controller that you want to be a parent
of this child for whatever reason and
use the containment API to establish
that relationship by calling add child.
You'd want to use whatever the
API that that container provides,
because that will be its entry point.
And you see we do that a
lot with our containers,
like push view controller
on navigation controller,
et cetera.
So use that API, not the containment API.
That's really meant only for subclassers.
And also,
parents manage their children's views.
There will be an example later as
to why this makes as much sense,
but this calls back to the
centralizing responsibility.
If all the views, the children views,
are taking care of their own layout,
things can quickly get confusing,
especially when there
needs to be communication.
So it's best to let the root
view controller manage the
layout of its children's views.
So, quick summary.
Why use view controllers?
Well, they manage a view hierarchy,
making that easy.
They centralize responsibility.
And they're very usable,
which makes them this great size
unit to vend and to get back
from the system and use yourself.
And using them effectively,
one window with one root view controller,
and then to build up your
view controller hierarchy,
take advantage of our
system provided containers,
of the presentation mechanism,
and then finally creating
your own custom containers.
So now I'd like to invite Bruce on
stage to talk to us about where
we're going with view controllers.
Thank you, Matt.
Good afternoon.
My name's Bruce Nilo.
My business card says I'm
a view controller mechanic.
Not a messy job,
as some mechanic jobs are,
but after this week I think I'm going
to ask my boss for a promotion to view
controller philosopher or something.
I'm going to pick up where Matt left off.
I want to talk a little
bit about the new APIs,
some of the new APIs that we're
adding to View Controller in iOS 6,
and some of the APIs that
we're going to say goodbye to.
We're going to drill down a little bit
more into view controller containment.
Another way of thinking about that is
how you might embed a view controller's
view hierarchy into another one.
We're going to talk about auto rotation.
We're kind of changing our approach to
auto rotation in iOS 6 a little bit.
And it's important to understand that.
And then there's going to
be a bunch of other stuff.
The other stuff is actually important.
It's kind of more of what's
motivating some of these changes.
So you get a sense of where we're going
and where we're going to be taking
view controllers into the future.
So I'm also going to demonstrate
an application that I put together
to highlight some of these points.
I want to take a little digression,
if you'll let me,
to talk about that upside-down
pachyderm in the picture.
It really has nothing to
do with this presentation.
It's just a photo that I took,
except I realized about a couple of
days ago that it's actually a metaphor
for how we sometimes evolve APIs.
It can be a little bit
of a balancing act.
And I didn't realize it,
but my subconscious was a
little bit prescient there.
So this is going to be showing an
application with a custom container
with its own kind of application flow.
You get a sense of it there.
We're going to talk about
best containment practices.
We're going to talk about how to
adopt the new auto-rotation behavior
that I will be discussing shortly.
And we're going to talk about
how do you ensure that your view
controller knows how to lay itself
independently of the interface
orientation that it's presented in.
And finally,
we're going to highlight some
examples where some of these best
practices should actually be applied.
So, let's talk about where view
controllers are right now.
And there's kind of this big general
abstract point is that we want view
controllers to be able to basically
compose well with one another.
And by compose,
what I mean is that I should be
able to present a view controller
on top of another view controller
that maybe is inside of a form
sheet where a popover might pop up
that has another view controller.
And all of these things interact
and I can rotate it and the status
bar winds up in the right place.
It all just works consistently
one with the other.
That's a primary objective.
View controllers should just work
in all of the various presentation
operators we have in UIKit.
But over time, some of the assumptions
have changed a little bit.
We've started to add new device types.
We began to add many view controllers
onto the screen at the same time.
So this is kind of an evolution from
where we started with the phone.
And we're constantly adding new system
view controllers that you can call
out to from your own view controllers
and from other view controllers.
So the whole network of application flows
that is possible has grown substantially.
And because of that,
some of the internal APIs have to evolve
so that we can keep them consistent.
I guess another way of framing what
I'm going to be talking about in
terms of the APIs is I'm not going
to be talking about the intelligent
design of view controllers.
controllers.
Sorry about that.
So let's talk a little bit about
How we've changed containment.
Containment for view controllers, again,
was really added in iOS 5 to meet
that objective of being able to
compose view controllers with
one another in a consistent way.
Prior to iOS 5,
basically the only way to embed one view
controller in another was to grab its
view and slam it into the view hierarchy
of another view controller's view,
except for our system containers,
which magically knew how to manage this
relationship between view controllers.
So that was no longer a very
composable recommendation.
We needed to provide a way for
you as third-party developers to
build your own custom containers.
And inform the system
that you were doing so.
So this picture that Matt has shown
earlier demonstrates that before you
add the view hierarchy of a child view
controller into another view hierarchy,
tell the system, tell the parent, hey,
I am a child.
And that allows us in the system to
know that there's another informed
or interested player in the mix when
we start presenting and rotating.
and the like.
All right,
so I'm going to talk about some
of the new API that we've added.
There's one API which we've
called Should Automatically
Forward Appearance Methods.
There used to be a much
bigger method name,
and I'll show you what that
was a little bit later.
Let's make believe we return no.
The default for this is yes, by the way,
because most of the time
the system takes handles,
the forwarding of appearance.
That's appearance methods are
basically view will appear,
view did appear, view will disappear,
and view did disappear to its
children at the right points in time.
But you might want to build a
container that actually doesn't
want to use the default logic.
You would override this
method and return no.
So this is an example,
some hypothetical container class,
which has a revealed child method.
And we've added two new methods.
These actually weren't
published as API on iOS 5,
called BeginAppearanceTransition,
Animated, EndAppearanceTransition.
And basically these are used by
a subclass of UIViewController
that's implementing a container
to inform its children that they
are about to appear or disappear.
Why would you want to do that?
Well, sometimes you might be building
a complex container controller,
and maybe the actual views of the
children are tiled off-screen.
And what you're really trying
to do is you want to animate one
of these off-screen views into
front and center stage somehow.
And the system wouldn't
do the right thing then,
because you want to basically
tell the view controller that's
off-screen that it's appearing when
you actually intend it to appear
and animate it front and center.
Normally,
the way that the appearance callbacks
are generated is tied to when a
child view controller's view is
added to the window hierarchy and
removed from the window hierarchy.
So in such a case,
if you have such a complex set of
animations that you want to animate,
you would return no from the method
that was on the previous page,
you would implement a
method like this one,
and you'd call those two new
API methods highlighted below.
As I was saying,
normally you would just add the subview.
You wouldn't have to do anything else.
But in this case,
just to emphasize the point,
we've created an animation
using the UIView animation API.
And inside the animation block,
we are going to animate the frame into
the visible section of the window.
One thing not to forget is
that the container's appearance
callbacks need to forward that
information to its children as well,
and their own view will
appear if you did disappear.
For example,
if I have a container controller
and some child presents another
view controller full screen,
that container is actually
going to disappear.
And so when it reappears,
you want to tell its children in
turn that they are reappearing.
Now,
I didn't show the other side of this,
the disappearing, but it's an inverse,
effectively, of these methods.
Matt made this point earlier.
In general,
what you want to do is you want
to wrap all of the calls to the
View Controller Containment API into
a method that is effectively
published for use by its clients.
So, in this case,
Reveal Child calls the internal
View Controller methods
that are highlighted there,
and then anyone who wants to
add a child into that container
class would call Reveal Child.
Another point that Matt made
that I'd like to reemphasize
is the parent's responsible
for the frames of its children.
And by frames of its children,
I mean the frames of the
view of its children.
The child view controller is
responsible for its own view hierarchy.
So in its view,
we'll lay out subviews methods,
and now in iOS 6,
in its update view constraints method,
it can go wild below itself.
It can access its bounds,
it can move things around,
but it can't indicate,
or it shouldn't indicate,
where it lives in its parent's view.
And just to go back to this method again,
that's what that method
Adjust Frame for Child.
That is a method that is
implemented in the parent,
in the container controller.
So there is a worst practice.
I mean,
kind of a semi-bad practice might be that
you've implemented a parent and child,
and the child adds its view
directly to its parent.
It's not great, but it's not the worst.
The worst is that you add it
on a class you have nothing--
you know nothing about.
And this has actually happened.
And sometimes it actually
was a useful thing to do.
But it is really bad practice.
We might start throwing exceptions
and really not being happy
if that continues to happen.
If Dante were alive,
I might petition him.
Okay, we have a few other changes.
This is that method.
I'm a little bit embarrassed
about this method.
It got introduced in iOS 5.
We're deprecating it now.
I think it competed for the
longest selector name in iOS.
I'm not sure,
and I'm not even going to try to say it.
But we broke that
method into two methods.
There's the should automatically
forward rotation methods and the should
automatically forward appearance methods,
which we talked about.
Typically,
subclassers of UIViewController that are
implementing containers really only care
about one or the other and not both,
so it made perfect sense to split
the method and shorten the name.
We discuss the begin appearance and
end appearance transition methods.
Just in case it's not obvious,
it takes a Boolean,
which is yes if we're talking
about a view controller appearing
or no if it's disappearing.
Auto rotation.
So this is kind of a big set of changes.
So in iOS 5 and earlier,
I mean from the beginning,
basically a view controller
would override should auto
rotate to interface orientation,
and this method is queried
prior to a rotation.
Great.
Perhaps less intuitively,
it's also queried prior to presentations.
And sometimes you can end up with
kind of weird mixed orientations where
you're holding the device in portrait
and something slides in in landscape
and the status bar is off to one side.
And this was all the way it was,
this was the mechanics by which we
were able to determine what to do.
Oftentimes the container controllers
would ask their children,
what is my supported
interface orientation?
So you'd push a navigation controller on,
the navigation controller
would be a review controller,
you'd rotate it,
and whether or not the navigation
controller rotated was really
a function of what the top
view controller said to do.
So sometimes it would rotate,
sometimes it wouldn't rotate.
So there are a couple
of problems with that.
Let's go through a few of them.
So the first one that kind
of gives an inkling that
something's a little bit amiss is,
you know, what might support interface
orientations is really not the same
question as do I want to rotate.
These are not the same thing,
but they're kind of used
interchangeably by that method.
It's a little bit odd as we're moving
into this world of custom containers
and multiple view controllers
on a screen that children get
to veto what the supported interfaces
orientations of the parent are.
It kind of encourages a way of thinking
about how you should lay yourself out
based on your interface orientation.
And back in the day when everything
was kind of full screen on a phone,
that made a lot of sense.
It begins to make less sense.
So let's look at that.
I mean, interface orientation.
That's a method or a property.
It's a property on UI view controller.
And sometimes it just
doesn't mean that much.
So there's a view controller,
a child view controller,
and you could ask it what
its interface orientation is.
On iOS 5 and earlier,
it's not exactly clear
what that would return.
Similarly, you have a popover controller.
You can ask the popover controller,
"What is its interface orientation?"
I can rotate and ask the popover
controller the exact same question,
"What is its interface orientation?" Now,
some of you might know
the answer to this.
It's going to tell you that its
interface orientation is portrait.
Part of the issue with that, in terms of,
again, going back to composability
and making things consistent,
is that it kind of leads you to think,
well, portrait is default layout, right?
I mean, I'm now thinking that portrait
is what I mean when I just want
the default layout to occur.
So we're trying to shift away from
that type of thinking a little.
So one other issue is that
interface orientation is also
tightly coupled with rotation.
And guess what?
In iOS 5, we changed when rotation
callbacks actually are made.
So it didn't even work anymore on iOS 5.
So if I presented a full-screen
controller over another controller,
rotated...
Great.
All of those rotation callbacks
that Matt enumerated earlier get
sent to the top view controller.
That's great.
Now when I dismiss the top
view controller on iOS 5,
those rotation callbacks do not get
sent to the presenting controller.
So we've gotten a lot of bugs about that,
and it is a change in behavior that
we talked about on iOS 5 and in WWDC,
in fact.
So how do you target
earlier iOS releases?
So, pre-iOS behavior has to be
checked by a selector check,
basically.
So, if you will layout subviews
is not implemented,
you know you're on a pre-iOS 5 system,
which means that if you care about
layout in a rotation like that,
you got to implement it
in the rotation callbacks.
So, typically what we recommend
is refactor your layout call,
and if you're targeting
something prior to iOS 5,
you're going to need to call out to
that method in the rotation callback.
Otherwise, view will layout subviews is
going to handle the job just fine.
So, moving forward.
View controllers in general as
reusable components should attempt
to support all orientations.
Certainly most of the view controllers
that are vended by iOS are moving
towards that -- into that direction.
In fact,
I think they all do that at this point.
A child view controller should
be able to lay out in any
frame its parent specifies.
So that kind of gets to,
it really doesn't care
about interface orientation,
because maybe the parent is a
subview off to the side somewhere.
So this deserves a little bit of comment.
There's a canonical example where you
present a video controller from portrait
and the whole interface slides up in
landscape because in general we want
video to kind of display in landscape.
So we do have a way that you can
indicate that a presentation should
come up in an orientation that's
distinct from the actual current
orientation that the device is at.
And this is the one way that we are
going to kind of allow these mixed
orientations to continue forward.
And in fact, that's the API.
It's called Preferred Interface
Orientation for Presentation.
A view controller that is
being presented can indicate,
hey,
I always want to come up in landscape.
It's one of my supported
interface orientations,
and the system will do that for you.
Another small change here is that
we only are going to be consulting
the topmost full-screen controller.
So that's typically the
root view controller,
but it can be any other controller
that's presented full-screen.
And one of the big things is, like,
an application should say,
"These are the orientations
I support." You know,
a view controller might
support everything,
but an application might say,
"I only want to be -- to run in
a landscape set of orientations."
And so we're making it a lot easier
for the application to just do that,
typically with no code
written whatsoever.
So, for example,
inside of the Info.plist,
there's a great interface in Xcode
where you can actually specify that.
Previously, this kind of had to do
with launch orientations.
Now it's also going to be respected
in terms of what the application's
preferred orientations are.
We're also going to add a method
to the application delegate
so the application delegate,
if it wants, can compute what its
preferred orientations are.
All right, so let's summarize.
We are deprecating that
mouthful of a method.
We are introducing a
couple of new methods,
supported interface orientations
and preferred interface
orientation for presentation,
which I just discussed.
We're going to introduce
a string constant.
We will throw exceptions every
now and then if you do wacky
things in your application,
like say you don't support any
orientations or you have a preferred
orientation that isn't one of your
accepted or supported orientations,
stuff like that.
Now, I wanted to take a little
bit of a detour and say,
okay, here's reality.
I have an iOS 5 app.
You know, I have this thing that
only works in portrait.
I push something onto a
navigation controller.
I rotate to the landscape,
and I really want to
pop back into portrait,
and I really need all
of that stuff to work.
I don't have time to adopt the
new approach you're talking about.
So there is a way to do that,
and it's going to require
a little bit of work.
If you're using one of
our system containers,
you might have to subclass it.
You might have to subclass it
just so you can override what the
supported interface orientations are,
and then you'll get mostly the
same behavior that you were looking
for or that you had in iOS 5.
The one exception to that is any
use of set status bar orientation.
I don't know how many of
you guys actually use that,
but that is going to have to be
converted into a presentation if you
want to kind of try to manipulate where
the status bar actually is oriented.
So there are a couple other
changes that I want to go through.
Okay, that's the big one.
I did say that set status bar
orientation is being deprecated in iOS 6.
The way to get that functionality
is by breaking your application into
presenting a controller that wants to
be presented in a different orientation.
So, this auto-rotation stuff,
the seed that you guys have
has this capability in it.
It's not turned on by default.
You can turn it on basically by going
into a schema of your application
and setting that launch argument.
Then it'll turn on the behavior for
supported interface orientation.
There are going to be a
couple more changes that come
out in the subsequent seeds,
so please stay tuned
and check release notes.
Okay, view will unload, view did unload.
We're not going to call it anymore.
I mean,
there's kind of a cost-benefit equation
and analysis that we went through.
And in the early days,
there was a real performance need for
us to ensure that on memory warnings,
we unloaded views.
There was all kinds of graphics,
backing stores, and so forth that would
also get unloaded.
We now unload those
independently of the view,
so it isn't that big a deal for
us to force views to be unloaded.
And there were so many bugs where
there would be pointers into
unloaded views that didn't get
cleared that at the end of the day,
we didn't think it was worth
automatically calling those.
So we're going to
deprecate those methods.
You can still get the same behavior.
Your view controllers will still receive,
did receive memory warning.
And if they want to,
they can nil out that view.
It will work as expected.
You might want to check first
that your view isn't in the
window before you release it.
I make that point because some
applications actually used ViewWillUnload
and ViewDidUnload as a means to get rid
of other resources as well that weren't
necessarily related to the view per se.
And so now that code might have to
shift into DidReceiveMemoryWarning.
These were effectively
deprecated in iOS 5,
the present modal view controller,
dismiss modal view controller.
They have more or less a
direct replacement called
present view controller,
which also takes a completion block.
There's not much to say about that.
So there's other new stuff,
and I guess this can fall in the
category of intelligent design.
We've added constraint-based
layout to UIKit,
Auto Layout, and view controllers play
really well with that.
There is a method called
update view constraints,
and you can kind of think of it
as view will layout subviews,
but it's working on constraints.
It's going to get called if
your constraints are modified,
and I'm a big fan of that method.
Storyboards are improving.
They now support unwinding,
which basically means you can actually
indicate to go back to where you started,
so you can pop a navigation controller
or you can dismiss a view controller.
So that's pretty cool.
There's a whole new kind of sub-feature
where view controllers are intimately
involved in helping an application
do state restoration so that if a
state is -- if an application is
suspended or killed and resumed,
you can have the illusion of coming
right back to where you were when
you last were using that application.
So I want to go move into the demo
and highlight some points in code,
the demo, God's willing.
Before I do that,
it will be helpful to talk a little bit
about the structure of the demo app,
just so you know what I'm talking about.
We're implementing a custom
view controller container.
It is the root view
controller of the window.
And let me make a little
side comment about this.
We have changed the behavior of
when or how a view controller
becomes the root view controller.
For a long time,
we've been admonishing everybody,
call set root view controller,
don't rely on adding a view
controller's view to the window to
make it the root view controller.
Well, in iOS 6,
you can add a view controller's
view to the window,
but it's not going to be
the root view controller,
which means it won't get rotated.
So, if you have patient callbacks,
it'll be as if nothing's working.
What you really need to do is
call set root view controller now.
So, this custom container class
is initialized with content.
It so happens that the content
for this demo app is just a photo
browsing type of view controller.
It could have been a page view controller
that loaded other view controllers,
but for purposes of pedagogy,
it's a relatively simple
content view controller.
The container view controller
manages a comment view controller,
which is then associated
with the content,
which you can see on this screen.
And then it ties in with the
rest of some of the features
that are available on UIKit,
like you can tweet the photo with
the comment to any friends you want.
You can email it.
And that ties in with the
new activity view controller,
which is available on iOS 6 as well.
[Transcript missing]
Look at it on an iPad.
So, if I do a long tap gesture,
you'll see that the comment
controller comes up.
I can rotate it,
and it lays out pretty nicely.
It doesn't support upside down,
which I guess is a little
bit odd on an iPad.
I would want it to
support all orientations.
And I can bring up a camera.
This is a full screen presentation.
We can look at the switcher box here.
And when I dismiss it,
I'm going to notice a
little problem here,
and this is one of the things
I want to talk to in code as well.
You'll notice that the comment
controller is off to the side now.
So it kind of didn't get laid out
the way we expect it to get laid out.
So what I'm going to do is --
Let's switch to the -- switch to Xcode.
And I'm going to talk a little bit
about how this code is structured.
So to make it easy for myself,
I created some pound defines
here that you can see.
So I can kind of enable like the
different pieces of code that
I want to talk to you about.
Because if I actually
had to type it right now,
I'd run over time by far.
Before we go there,
let's look at the supported
interface orientation.
So remember it didn't rotate upside down.
Well, now I'm going to make it rotate
upside down by clicking that.
Next time we run it, we'll see it.
And now let's look and see how we were
dealing with the layout on that rotation.
Well,
what we'll see is that the layout is
being driven inside of the "will animate
rotation to interface" orientation.
That works great when the
view controller is actually
presented in front and center,
but it doesn't work, as we discussed,
when there's a full-screen
presentation over that view controller
and subsequently gets rotated.
So, we're going to fix that.
And the way we're going to fix that is
we're going to use the new Auto Layout.
I will look at the code,
but before we go to the code,
I'm just going to change
the pound defines.
So let's search for Auto Layout.
I'm glossing over a little bit of the
calls that are done in Auto Layout just
because those aren't entirely
germane to the view controller talk.
But what you'll see here is that
I've provided an implementation
for update view constraints.
And in case you haven't seen the talk,
I recommend that you do
download it or see the talk.
But what constraints do is that
they create linear relationships
between different view attributes.
And then the layout engine figures
out how to satisfy those constraints,
possibly by moving sub views around.
And what I decided was, you know,
I didn't like the fact that
the size of that comment
controller was always the same.
It would be much better if it kind
of tracked the aspect ratio of
the actual interface orientation.
So what these constraints do is,
first of all, it says,
I always want the -- I always
want that comment controller to
be in the center of the screen.
So you'll see there's a relationship
for equal on the center.
I also always want it to be
on the bottom of the screen.
And finally,
I want the width and the height to
be a proportion of the width and the
height of my containing super view.
And with those changes, more or less,
we're going to run it again.
Devices ready?
All right.
My pachyderm friend
always makes me happy.
So...
Check that it's rotating now.
Oh, look, this is upside down.
You can tell because
the cable's sticking up.
So, that -- changing the info P list,
really easy.
Change your supported
interface orientations.
I'm doing a long press now.
And we're in the center.
Notice how the aspect ratio of
the comment container has changed.
Let's see what happens when
I present something full screen.
I'm going to dismiss now.
And we're centered.
So using Update View Constraints,
it's really simple.
It's really simple to figure out
what your layout is in a way that's
completely independent of the
interface orientation of rotation.
So it's certainly something
that you should be looking
forward to using in your apps.
So one thing I wanted to
talk about was -- it's okay.
It's a comment container controller.
I should be able to write a comment.
So -- oh.
So there's another problem.
And, you know, this is not a big problem,
right?
I mean, the keyboard came up, oh, God,
I've got to move my views.
There's a notification I can listen to.
But what I wanted to,
the reason I'm showing this is because
there's different ways you might
consider how should I move that,
this particular view,
the comment container,
not the comment container,
the comment view controller's view
inside of the window hierarchy.
You might say, well,
it's the comment container
that needs to be moved.
It can register for a keyboard
notification and move it itself.
So that's actually not what we want you
to do or not what we recommend you do.
Part of the reason for that is it
kind of violates encapsulation.
If you think about it,
a container controller
can have many children.
Maybe more than one of
these things has to move.
And so now each one of those is
going to be like registering and
listening and kind of cross-fighting.
And so you're going to have
to figure out how to do that.
And so this is really the job
of the parent view controller.
So let's look at the
code for how we do that.
You'll notice there's a handy macro.
So in the viewDidAppear method,
we register for the keyboard
willShow and hide notifications.
We unregister and viewDidDisappear.
And then the implementation
is really simple.
Mind you,
this is in the container view controller.
So this is in the view controller
that got initialized with the content
photo controller and everything.
And what it's going to do,
it's going to grab the geometry
out of the keyboard notification,
convert it to the correct
coordinate system,
and then it's going to call
a method that it implements,
which is to adjust the commentY
position of that comment controller.
And all that's doing is,
guess what it's doing?
It's recalculating the frame for that
comment controller and then setting it.
And it's setting it inside of an
animation block so that it animates
smoothly with the keyboard animation.
So I'm going to run
now with these changes.
A long tap again.
This time I'm going to hit the keyboard
and everything animates up smoothly.
So you can enter a comment here.
I can bring up the
Activity View Controller.
I can tweet it to my
friends if I feel like it.
And that demonstrates kind
of a recommended way for
doing keyboard avoidance.
And I just want to give some closing
remarks about what you've seen.
So in general,
custom container controllers,
embedding view controllers, you know,
you're free to implement these.
The best reason for implementing them is
because you have a new application flow.
You have something that you want
to reuse that makes sense to reuse.
If you ever find yourself taking a view
controller's view and really wanting
to add it into another view hierarchy,
you should immediately think
there is a relationship between
another view controller that
I need to factor into the picture.
Usually that will bring,
sometimes it'll be very easy to do it,
sometimes it'll bring into
focus a part of the design that
will make your application a
lot more robust moving forward.
Having said that,
we have lots of... As Matt pointed out,
many, many system container controllers.
And they provide a lot of functionality.
They have a lot of knobs.
And if one of those works,
you should use it.
But what's great is you can compose
all of these things together.
You can use your own custom
container controller.
You can put in a system controller.
Like in this application,
I could have had a page view
controller as one of the children.
And then instead of this...
Instead of like clicking up and down,
you can have a page view controller.
And then instead of a button
to flip between my photos,
I could have swiped just like
we see in the photos app.
So these changes that we make in
UI view controller are really so that
those types of compositions continue
to work well for your applications.
Interface orientation, rotation, layout.
Rotation callback should
really be used if you want to
participate in the rotation.
Layout, for most view controllers,
should really be
independent of the question,
am I in portrait, am I in landscape?
There are exceptions to this,
but in general,
if you want to be able to compose
your view controllers cleanly
with other view controllers,
you'll be making an effort to
be looking in the bounds of
your view controller's view.
And sometimes you don't even
have to look at the bounds.
I mean, with update view constraints,
you can express these things
pretty declaratively without
even knowing that information.
Again, you know, there's a couple of
ways of expressing this,
but the bottom line is that
a view controller should
never set its own frame.
Auto rotation is changing,
and view controllers in general should
strive to support all orientations.
I realize I'm going to
get some flack for this,
except on the phone.
It's okay not to support
upside down on the phone.
In fact, that's recommended.
Apps can now easily indicate the
orientations that they support.
I mean, most of the time you're not even
going to have to write any code.
You're going to click something in the
info P list and it's just going to work.
And as I said,
rotation callbacks are really for
participating in the rotation.
Kind of big picture,
Matt touched on this.
View controllers are really
the cornerstone of iOS apps.
It's probably going to
get more and more so.
We are vending more
view controllers as API.
So, and we're going to
continue to add features.
So, they're useful and they make
a lot of your tasks easier.
View controllers are a great abstraction.
Design them with an eye to reuse.
And really, think about how you want them
to interact with each other in
terms of your application flow.
Not everything needs to
be a view controller.
It is more often the case than not
that what you really want is you want
to manage some subviews directly.
And a view controller
can do that just fine,
and you can animate
between your subviews.
And kind of the bigger take-home
message for this kind of non-intelligent
design of view controllers
talk is really looking forward,
you want to kind of try to track
the new APIs as they're coming out.
And at least don't participate
in some of the deprecated APIs.
If you do that, you're going to evolve
with the whole ecosystem,
and your apps are going to be
more robust and work better.
So I think that's all I have.
Actually, I have one more slide.
There were, I did refer to a couple of
supporting technologies.
I believe there is a state
restoration talk that's going
to happen in 15 minutes.
The other two talks,
you're going to need to grab off the web.
These are our contacts.
Any bugs in the demo app,
feel free to contact Jake Behrens.